feat: June 2026 newsletter (#75)
OAI/Outreach: src/website/blog/2026-04-09-june-2026-newsletter.md

feature is key, as it ensures that Overlay documents provide the full corpus of
knowledge for the pipeline.

The release date for v1.2.0 is yet to be fixed, but we'll keep you up to date
with news on the release.

### Getting Involved

We want to acknowledge the efforts of our specification team members and
community in bringing these releases together. Many hours are spent in ideation,
drafting, and review, and the specifications are always on the lookout for help.

The work on Security Profiles also shows how the involvement of experts across
the industry is tremendously important, and discussions between OAI more widely
and the FAPI Working Group have taken place. This level of community engagement
across different standards bodies is vital in helping OAS, Arazzo, and Overlay
evolve and develop to meet the needs of the ecosystem, especially in supporting
Agents and AI more generally with features that support automation and autonomy.

If you want to get involved - either by helping with the authoring, or bringing
fresh ideas or expertise to the community - you can come and join the
specification meetings for OpenAPI, Arazzo, and Overlay on our

> [Community Calendar](https://www.openapis.org/get-involved/about).

Reviewer: Can we plug the slack as well?

Author: > Can we plug the slack as well?

Done - added as suggested.

---
slug: openapi-initiative-newsletter-june-2026
publication-date: 2026-06-09
author: Chris Wood
---

# OpenAPI Initiative Newsletter – June 2026

Welcome to the OpenAPI Initiative (OAI) June 2026 newsletter!

We are excited to bring all the latest specification, events, and community news
across the OpenAPI, Arazzo, and Overlay specifications and the wider community.

### OpenAPI Specification

The OpenAPI Specification (OAS) team is evaluating changes for v3.3, with a
number of items in scope.

> Firstly, the team is investigating a concept called "Standardized API Features",

Reviewer 2: Slight tweak to make it clear that I totally made up this term- it's not something people will recognize.

```suggestion
Firstly, the team is investigating a concept that we're calling "Standardized API Features",
```

or SAFs. As the name suggests SAFs are intended to provide a mechanism for

> characterizing features of OAS in two ways, namely: the feature has standardised

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or SAFs. As the name suggests SAFs are intended to provide a mechanism for
characterizing features of OAS according to two properties, namely: the feature has standardised
```

This suggestion feels a bit more accurate but if it doesn't read smoothly enough I'm open to other ideas.

behavior defined by an external specification (such as an RFC), and it requires
an exception to the normal rules for describing API operations in OAS. Cookies
are the clearest example: their behavior is defined by RFC 6265, and they need
special treatment in OAS because the Cookie header cannot simply be described

> using the standard parameter approach.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
special treatment in OAS because the Cookie header cannot simply be described
using the standard header parameter approach.
```

The SAF concept is therefore intended to help the specification community learn
from past design mistakes and reason more clearly about which API features
deserve first-class, dedicated treatment in the Specification versus those that
can be described generically. The SAF concept therefore provides significant
affordances for the development of new features in both v3.3 and all future

> versions.

Reviewer 2: I just want to say that this really nails the purpose and benefits of SAFs.  🎉   Thanks for capturing this so well!

Author: Thanks @handrews appreciate the feedback 👍
